---
title: Contributing to Documentation
layout: ../../layouts/Markdown.astro
---

Like answering questions, contributing to documentation is an important place where contributions are needed. Contributing to documentation is also a great place to start learning and contributing to open source. Even this website is built so that developers such as yourself can contribute!

## [Delta.io > Github](https://github.com/delta-io/website)

The Delta.io website, documentation, and the issues that need to be worked on can be found [here in the issues section](https://github.com/delta-io/website/issues) of the Github repository. This is also a great place to propose your own issues and solutions with the current documentation.

The site is generated by Astro (specifically the [Starlight theme](https://starlight.astro.build/guides/pages/)). This allows us to build the content of the website using **`MD`** files thus making things easy to create and edit. This will also simplify version control because we put the **`MD`** files directly into GitHub. This approach allows the community to edit the delta.io website and documentation directly.

Initial setup to contribute to [Delta.io](http://Delta.io)

- Use your favorite IDE to edit these **`MD`** files. We suggest Visual Studio Code if you don't have a preference
  - Install _Visual Studio Code_
  - Install _Prettier - Code formatter_ extension
- Fork the https://github.com/delta-io/website site to your own (e.g. https://github.com/dennyglee/website) so you can make edits to your fork of the site.
- **NOTE:** Most of the changes we will be doing are in the **`src/content/blog`** folder.

## Adding a new blog to [Delta.io](http://Delta.io)

To demonstrate how a contributor can add or edit content to Delta.io, we will step through how to add a new blog to the site.

- Each blog is stored as its own separate folder in the **`src/content/blog`** folder organized by date.
- Each folder contains an **`index.mdx`** file (Markdown extension) plus the associated images
  - There typically is a thumbnail.png which is the image that shows up on the https://delta.io/blog as a featured image
  - You can also include any other images that are needed for the blog.
- To create a new blog, start by creating a new folder in your own fork of the site; the following is the view from VS Code (right-click on blogs, click on New folder). Follow the same naming convention of YYYY-MM-DD-name_of_blog for the folder name
- Copy a previous blog's **`index.mdx`** and ensure to update the metadata at the top of the blog.
  - Note that there is a **`./thumbnail.png`** reference, copy an image to the same folder and rename it as **`./thumbnail.png`** OR update the metadata key thumbnail with the path of the image. Ensure the image file name is PNG and does not have any spaces in the name.

## Creating a pull request and deploying

After completing changes locally, like the one above, you can now push to Github and deploy them using the steps below:

- Once you have completed your edits, commit these changes to your fork. The following is a screenshot from the VS Code Source Control window. Ensure you add a description (e.g. "Adding Delta Survey 09/16/2021 blog") and click on the checkmark box to commit changes.
- Go to your branch and create a new pull request to master. Once you do this, a number of checks will automatically be performed and a staging site will be generated. This allows reviewers to both see the file diff as well as the preview of what the site will look like.

- **NOTE:** Netlify (bot) allows you to explore the source changes, inspect the deploy log, and browse the preview. To view the changes, click on the browser preview link. For example,
  - The browser preview link above is: https://deploy-preview-15--delta-lake.netlify.app/
  - Clicking on it reviews the entire site staged for your review.
  - Since this is a blog, click on [blog] and then you'll notice the survey blog (in this example) posted to the top left.
- Presuming all checks are passed, the changes are then subsequently merged into your commit.

## Running the website locally

To run the website locally, run the command **`YOUTUBE_API_KEY=<string> pnpm dev`** from the repo folder. If you have never done this before, you first set up npm. To do so, run the following commands:

```
pnpm i
YOUTUBE_API_KEY=<string> pnpm dev
```
